The assignee for this patent application is Elements of Genius Inc. (Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, United States).
Reporters obtained the following quote from the background information supplied by the inventors: "Adherence to long-term medical
therapy is the extent to which a person's behavior (e.g., taking medication, following a diet, masking lifestyle changes) is aligned with
and in conformance with recommendations from their healthcare provider. Nonadherence occurs when a patient fails to use the
prescribed treatment correctly, such as taking an incorrect amount of medication or at the wrong time. Nonadherence is estimated at
a rate of 50% often leading to avoidable hospitalization, and has a significant financial impact on healthcare systems, nationally and worldwide.
"Medication nonadherence is multifactorial and possible causes include cognitive function, psychological issues, self-reliance,
memory-issues, health literacy, polypharmacy, and the lack of a care support system. There are two types of nonadherence:
unintentional and intentional, unintentional nonadherence occurring when patients involuntarily fail to use the prescribed treatment.
These factors and behaviors may put patients at the highest risk for medication nonadherence. Conventional interventions for
patients demonstrating tendencies towards medication nonadherence incorporate one or methods such as counseling, telephone
calls, message alerts and use of pillboxes. However, it is challenging to implement these methods in routine healthcare. The
proliferation of computing and networking technologies and smaller form factor computing devices such as tablets, smart phones, etc.
are increasingly used for personal purposes. These devices, for example smart phones, have been proposed to provide
communication and connectivity to stand-alone automated pill dispensers, enabling care givers or healthcare providers to provide
more effective interventions to patients. Despite patients' increasing use of these more sophisticated devices (e.g. with
communication and connectivity functions) to manage their daily activities and healthcare routines, improvements on existing pill
dispensing apparatuses and medication management methods are necessary to optimize patient compliance and medication
adherence."
In addition to obtaining background information on this patent application, VerticalNews editors also obtained the inventor's summary
information for this patent application: "Disclosed are an interactive pill dispensing system, apparatus, and methods with advanced
capabilities for medication management and adherence. In the broadest terms, the system comprises an advanced pill dispensing
apparatus with one or more user-interfaces (e.g., voice-controlled), computing, mobile communication, networking, and Artificial
Intelligent (AI) digital assistant capabilities. These capabilities enable the pill dispensing user (patient) to be connected to a support
system of care givers (e.g., family member, caregiver, etc., healthcare providers (e.g., nurse, physicians), and service providers (e.g.,
pharmacist, wholesalers, pharmacy benefit manager (PBM)). The apparatus functions as an integral component of an ecosystem for
medication management and adherence. The ecosystem comprises one or more said apparatus, local area network (LAN), wide area
network (WAN), Internet of Things (IoTs), a cellular network, Internet, ISP, mobile cellular phone (e.g., smart phone), local server,
remote server, cloud server, cloud computing services, laptop, desktop computer, database, application software, smart appliances
(e.g., Amazon Echo.RTM./Dot.RTM., TV, etc.). One or more of said components are configured to enable seamless communication
between patient, caregivers, healthcare providers, and service providers.
"According to an aspect of the present disclosure, an interactive pill dispensing apparatus provides one or more user functions
including, but not limited to, voice, data, SMS reminders, alerts, medication adherence monitoring, location via SMS, GPS location,
and 911 emergency services. The said device incorporates, within or user accessible of a self-contained portable unit, one or more
microprocessor, microcontroller, micro GSM/GPRS chipset, micro SIM module, read-write memory device, read-only memory device
(ROM), random access memory (RAM), flash memory, memory storage device, I-O devices, buttons, display, LED, user interface,
rechargeable battery, microphone, speaker, wireless transceiver (e.g., RF, WiFi, Bluetooth, IoT), RF electronic circuits, audio
CODEC, cellular antenna, GPS antenna, WiFi antenna, Blue Tooth antenna, IoT antenna, vibrating motor (output), preferably in
combination, to function fully as a wireless mobile cellular communication unit. The device can perform one or more executable

codes, algorithms, methods, and/or software instructions for automated voice recognition-response, natural language understanding-
processing, and wireless mobile cellular communication. One or more components (e.g., buttons, display, user interface, speakers,

microphone) are configured to be accessible to a user, on the external surface of a unit/housing.
"In another aspect of the present disclosure, an interactive pill dispensing apparatus incorporates, inside or user accessible, one or
more storage receptacles for storing one or more pills, pill inventory sensor, environmental sensor, sensor detection/signal processor,
analog digital convertor, an actuator for dispensing one or more pills from the storage receptacle, a receptacle for receiving a
dispensed pill, user identification component (e.g. fingerprint detector), a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera, data reader (e.g.,
barcode reader/scanner), RFID reader. In an alternative embodiment, the apparatus may be configured to receive, by insertion into
one or more compartment, at least one self-contained pill storage unit (e.g. cartridge, bottle, etc.). The self-contained pill storage unit
can possess a data storage component (e.g., linear barcode, matrix barcode, RFID). The inserted unit is controllable to allow the
dispensing apparatus to access pills and dispense them under automated instructions. These additional components may function in
combination with said computing components (e.g. processors, memory devices, etc.) to perform one or more executable codes,
algorithms, methods, and/or software instructions for motor actuation, user identification, image capture, image processing, sensor
detection, sensor signal processing, or the like, preferably to function as an advanced pill dispensing apparatus. The user may
access (i.e., accessible) or interact with device functions through one or more button, fingerprint detector, camera, touch screen,
voice-controlled speech user interface, or smart phone app.
"According to aspects of the present disclosure, the interactive pill dispensing apparatus can function in combination with an
application software platform accessible to multiple clients (users) executable on one or more remote servers, to preferably establish
the communication ecosystem. The ecosystem enables communication and social networking for a user (patient), family, caregivers,
healthcare providers, and service providers. Furthermore, the device may function in combination with one or more remote servers,
cloud control services, to perform natural language or speech-based interactions with the user, preferably through a voice-controlled
speech user interface.
"In one embodiment, the interactive pill dispensing apparatus can be configured to function in combination with one or more external

devices or smart appliances possessing AI digital assistant capabilities. The user may interact with the AI digital assistant, through a
voice-controlled speech user interface, to access or control the pill dispensing apparatus. The AI digital assistant can include, for
example, Amazon Alexa.RTM., Google Assistant.TM., Apple Siri, Microsoft Cortana, Samsung's Bixby, or the like. The interactive pill
dispenser and digital assistant capable devices may be paired and/or programmed using a smart phone app or through cloud
services, APIs, associated with said digital assistant capable devices. Exemplary digital assistant capable devices include but are not
limited to Echo.RTM., Dot.RTM., Show.RTM. from Amazon and Google Home.RTM. In another embodiment, one or more clients can
communicate with the interactive pill dispensing apparatus using a remote smart appliance, possessing AI digital assistant
capabilities, smart phone, smart phone apps, lap top, desk top, or the like.
"According to another aspect of the present disclosure, the voice-controlled speech user interface of the advanced pill dispenser
detects or monitors audio input/output and interacts with a user to determine a user intent based on natural language understanding
of the user's speech. The voice-controlled speech user interface is configured to capture user utterances and provide them to the
control service. The combination of the speech interface device and one or more applications executed by the control service serves
as a relational agent or AI digital assistant. The relational agent provides conversational interactions, utilizing automated voice
recognition-response, natural language processing, predictive algorithms, and the like, to interact and fulfill user requests. These
interactions between the relational agent and the user may include but are not limited to scheduling dosing time, alerting user, via
voice or audible sound, that a pill has been dispensed, reminding user to take medication, answering medication related questions,
querying user status, contacting 911 emergency services, scheduling transportation services (e.g. Uber.RTM., Circulation.TM.),
recording and sending messages (e.g., text, voice, video), scheduling doctor's appointments, contacting physicians to obtain refill
prescriptions, contacting pharmacists/PMBs to refill prescriptions, facilitating video communication, or the like.
"According to another aspect of the present disclosure, the interactive pill dispensing apparatus can communicate with a secured
HIPAA-compliant remote server. The remote server is accessible through one or more computing devices, including but not limited to,
desktop, laptop, tablet, mobile phone, smart appliances (i.e. smart TVs), or the like. The remote server contains a support application
software that include a database for storing user (s) information. The application software provides a collaborative working
environment to enable a voluntary, active, and collaborative effort between the advanced pill dispenser user, health care
team/providers, caregivers, family members, and service providers. The software environment allows for, but is not limited to, daily
tracking of the location of the device, monitoring medication adherence, sending-receiving text messages, push notifications,
sending-receiving voice messages, sending-receiving videos, streaming instructional videos, scheduling doctor's appointments,
patient education information, caregiver education information, feedback to healthcare providers, feedback to pharmacists, feedback
to PBMs, or the like. The application software can be used to store skills relating to the self-management and medication adherence
and persistence to therapy. The application software may contain functions for predicting or monitoring user/patient behaviors and
non-compliance to pharmacologic therapy. The application software may interact with an electronic health or medical record system
(e.g., EMR).

"According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure, the secured remote server is also accessible using the stand-alone voice-
controlled speech user interface device (i.e. AI digital assistant capable device) or, a speech user interface is incorporated into one or

more smart appliance, or mobile app, capable of communicating with the same or another remote server, providing cloud-based
control service, to perform natural language or speech-based interaction with the user, acting as the relational agent. The relational
agent provides conversational interactions, utilizing automated voice recognition-response, natural language learning-processing, and
performs various functions to: interact with the user, fulfill user requests, educate, monitor compliance, monitor persistence, provide
one or more skills, ask one or more questions, store responses/answers, perform predictive algorithms with user responses,
determine health status and well-being, play games, make phone calls, or provide suggestions for corrective actions including
instructions for medication management and adherence.
"According to another aspect of the present disclosure, the aforementioned skills are developed and accessible through the relational
agent. These skills may include but are not limited to specific educational topics, medication information, prescription insert
information, medication nutrition related information (e.g., avoid eating vitamin x while taking warfarin), instructions for taking
medication, improving medication adherence, physical rehabilitation, improving cognition, increasing persistence, adverse symptoms
management, proprietary developed skills, coping skills, behavioral skills, skills for daily activities, skills for caregivers, or other skills
disclosed herein.
"A user interacts with the relational agent by providing responses or answers to clinically validated questionnaires or instruments. The
questionnaires enable the monitoring of patient behaviors, medication compliance, medication adherence, medication persistence,
wellness, symptoms, adverse events monitoring, and the like. The responses or answers provided to the relational agent serve as
input to one or more predictive algorithms to calculate a risk stratification profile and trends. Such a profile can provide an
assessment for the need for any intervention or behavior modification required by either the user, caregivers, family members, or
healthcare team/providers.
"Specific embodiments of the present disclosure provide for an interactive pill dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing comprising
at least one pill storage receptacle; a pill inventory sensor operably engaged with the at least one pill storage receptacle; an actuator
operably engaged with the at least one pill storage unit and being configured to selectively dispense one or more pills; an input/output
device configured to receive a user authentication input and a prescription authentication input; and, a control unit being operably
engaged with the pill inventory sensor, the actuator, and the input/output device, the control unit comprising at least one processor
and at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium having one or more instructions stored thereon to cause the processor to
perform one or more actions, the one or more actions comprising: authenticating a user based on the user authentication input;
authenticating a prescription based on the prescription authentication input; receiving an input from the pill inventory sensor;
determining a pill inventory according to the input from the pill inventor sensor; and, engaging the actuator to dispense one or more
pills from the at least one pill storage unit.
"Further specific embodiments of the present disclosure provide for an interactive pill dispensing system comprising a housing
comprising at least one pill storage receptacle; a pill inventory sensor operably engaged with the at least one pill storage receptacle;
an actuator operably engaged with the at least one pill storage unit and being configured to selectively dispense one or more pills; an
input/output device configured to receive a user authentication input and a prescription authentication input; a control unit being
operably engaged with the pill inventory sensor, the actuator, and the input/output device, the control unit comprising a wireless
communication chipset, at least one processor and at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium having one or more
instructions stored thereon to cause the processor to perform one or more actions, the one or more actions comprising authenticating
a user based on the user authentication input, engaging the actuator to dispense one or more pills from the at least one pill storage
unit according to one or more dispensing rules, and storing dispensing data in the at least one non-transitory computer-readable
medium; and, a mobile electronic device communicably engaged with the control unit via at least one wireless communications
protocol, the mobile electronic device being configured to receive and display dispensing data from the control unit.
"Still further specific embodiments of the present disclosure provide for an interactive pill dispensing system comprising: a housing
comprising at least one pill storage receptacle; a pill inventory sensor operably engaged with the at least one pill storage receptacle;
an actuator operably engaged with the at least one pill storage unit and being configured to selectively dispense one or more pills; an
input/output device configured to receive a user authentication input and a prescription authentication input; a control unit being
operably engaged with the pill inventory sensor, the actuator, and the input/output device, the control unit comprising a wireless
communication chipset, at least one processor and at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium having one or more
instructions stored thereon to cause the processor to perform one or more actions, the one or more actions comprising authenticating
a user based on the user authentication input, engaging the actuator to dispense one or more pills from the at least one pill storage
unit according to one or more dispensing rules, and storing dispensing data in the at least one non-transitory computer-readable
medium; and, a remote application server communicably engaged with the control unit via at least one wireless communications
network, the remote application server comprising an application database and an application software, the application software
being configured to establish one or more secure user associations and one or more secure device associations with the control unit.
"In summary, the system comprises an advanced pill dispensing apparatus, functioning as an integral component of an ecosystem for
medication management and patient adherence. It utilizes computing, mobile communication, networking, and Artificial Intelligence
(AI) to enable a user to be connected to a support system of care givers, healthcare providers, and service providers. The advanced
capabilities and functions can be employed to decrease patient non-compliance in an optimal manner."
The claims supplied by the inventors are: